You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
Today's message comes from Senior Pastor Dr. Bob McCartney.
Let's take our Bibles this morning and open them to Matthew chapter 16 verse 13.
We're going to focus this morning on, really on the church.
We're going to talk about and reflect upon what God has done in and through our church.
And we want to look forward to what God has in store for us and what we believe He's leading us toward in the future.
Next Sunday I'm beginning a new series of messages.
The title of the series is, The World Is Not Enough.
We're going to find out that finding or searching for satisfaction and significance in our world sometimes is just a treadmill and you do a lot of work but you don't go anywhere.
And so we're going to really look and dig into what it means that we were made for more.
And so that's what we're going to do in this next series of messages.
But today we're going to focus on
the work that God is doing in and through us as His people.
You know, when God created all of the animals of the world, there was something that He created in us that is interesting that to me is present in humans as well, and that is our desire to be in community.
Virtually all animals live in some sort of community.
Like wolves live in a pack and fish are in a school
Killer whales are in a pod.
Alligators, a group of alligators is called a congregation.
I pastored that church once.
But my favorite is the rhinoceros.
When you get a group of rhinoceroses, rhinocerai, I don't know, rhinos together, they're called a crash.
I love that, a crash.
A single rhinoceros can weigh up to 5,000 pounds.
Their skin is the thickness of the width of a man's hand.
They can run up to 30 miles per hour.
Don't think you could ever outrun a rhino.
30 miles per hour.
But God also built weakness into every part of the creation.
And the rhinoceros does have a weakness.
A rhinoceros can only see clearly for about 30 feet in front of it.
So if you get a crash of rhinoceros, 5,000 pounds each running 30 miles an hour, but they can only see 30 feet in front of them, a crash is a pretty good description of what's about to happen.
And not much can stop it.
Now something possibly could.
But Jesus talked to us about a spiritual unstoppable force.
Jesus talked to us about a spiritual force that would crash through the very gates of death and Hades itself.
And that force is His church.
In our world, when we look around, a lot of times, just to be quite honest, the church looks weak.
The church doesn't look like something that could crash through the gates of hell.
The church looks weak.
And the reason the church is weak, a lot of times it's because the church is woke.
And we're not going to be that.
We're going to be a church that stands on the Word of God.
We're going to be a church that proclaims the unchanging message of the gospel in a culture that has gone awry.
And so the first thing that I want to say to you today is we don't want to be the typical church.
We don't.
Because the typical church is in decline.
The typical church is questioning what they believe.
We're gonna be a church that stands firm on the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And you know what happens when you do that?
God moves.
And we have seen that in this past year.
Now I wanna look at a passage of scripture, but I do need to tell you that I'm gonna talk a little bit about what God has done in our church.
And sometimes I really struggle with this message because sometimes that sounds braggadocious and I don't want it to be that way.
I want you to understand that anything that I say that is good, that has happened,
Myself the pastors on staff and even our church we acknowledge that all of this is a gift from God's hand Everything we're gonna look forward just a little bit about what we believe God has in store for us in the future And we want to follow him by faith We want to walk in step with him.
So that's what we're gonna do this morning But let me let me talk a little bit about the text before we move into that the Bible says Matthew records that Jesus
took his disciples to the region of Caesarea Philippi.
Caesarea Philippi was in the northern part of what is modern-day Israel.
It was a city that had been built by the Romans.
They had come in and built it and so it was very unique and unlike most of the rest of Israel.
Most of the rest of Israel was very devoutly Jewish and
They really didn't go for the pagan worship that they saw around them.
But in Caesarea Philippi, there were all these Greek and Roman temples.
It was very much pagan in every sense of the word.
There were all these pagan temples.
And so in that region, Jesus is not on neutral ground.
He is in a spiritual warfare mode in this place.
Not only that, there was one particular temple
to a God named Small G, false God, named Pan.
Pan was the God of the underworld.
There was a cave just outside Caesarea Philippi that was called the Gates of Hades.
It was a cave so deep, no one had ever been to the bottom of it.
And the myth was that it was the passageway to the underworld, to the realm of the dead.
And so when Jesus makes the statements that he's going to make in this passage, you get the context of where they were.
Now, when Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, He was asking His disciples, who do people say that the Son of Man is?
And they said, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.
He said to them, but who do you yourselves say that I am?
Simon Peter answered, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
And Jesus said to him, blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven.
And I also say to you that you are Peter and upon this rock, I will build my church.
and the gates of Hades will not overpower it."
In this passage, there are a couple of questions that are asked that we need to dig into.
First of all, there is a question that we must answer clearly.
There is a question we have to answer clearly, and Jesus asked two.
First, there was this question of popular opinion.
Jesus says, who do men, who do the people, who do the crowds say that I am?
And the disciples start to answer.
So they say, well, some of them think you're John the Baptist, which sounds kind of weird, but you have to understand something that Herod Antipas thought Jesus was John the Baptist, that he had had John the Baptist beheaded.
And he thought somehow that there was this reincarnation almost of John the Baptist that had come back to haunt him because he had had John the Baptist beheaded.
Some said you're John the Baptist.
Some say you're Elijah.
Now they were on a more spiritual track, and that is that in Malachi chapter three, that last book, the Old Testament, the Old Testament prophet had said that one would come in the spirit of Elijah before the Messiah came.
So they thought maybe he was the forerunner of the Messiah, but they didn't believe he was the Messiah.
Some say you're Jeremiah.
Jeremiah is called the weeping prophet.
And Jesus was a man of deep compassion.
The Bible says that at one point, he looked over Jerusalem, he saw the people, they were like sheep without a shepherd just kind of scattered and going nowhere, purposeless, aimless.
And he wept over Jerusalem.
He grieved and he cried over Jerusalem.
Some thought he was Jeremiah or maybe just one of the other prophets.
Maybe Jesus, you're just one of the other prophets.
Now here's what's interesting.
Jesus did not respond to any of the answers that they provided to the question because public opinion
doesn't impress Jesus.
The polling data doesn't shape his mission.
You see, every generation wants a Jesus that they can manage.
Every generation wants a Jesus that they can kind of force into their mold, whether that is a cultural mode or a political mold.
They want a Jesus that agrees with them.
But Jesus would have none of that.
And so he asked the question then of personal commitment.
But you, you, who do you yourselves say that I am?
See, Jesus is far more interested in what his church thinks of him than what his crowd thinks of him.
What is his church proclaiming?
What is the message that his church is bringing about him?
And does Jesus want us to take that message into the crowd?
Yes.
But Jesus is not concerned that he be socially acceptable or politically popular.
Jesus is concerned that the truth about who he is is made known.
That question always divides the church from the crowd.
Who do you say that I am?
You see, the prevailing church will be the church that answers the way that Peter answered.
You are the Christ, the Messiah, the chosen one, the anointed one, the Savior, the one who will be granted all authority.
You are the Lord and King.
That's who you are, Jesus.
You are the Son of the living God.
Now, when Peter answered that question, if you read your Bible, a lot of times, you know, the Bible says Peter said, Peter could sometimes speak
And it would just be like spirit inspired brilliance.
And then sometimes Peter could speak and he would put his foot in his mouth.
A little later in this very chapter, Peter is going to be rebuked by Jesus.
He's going to say, get behind me Satan.
But this time Jesus says, Peter, you're right, but you're not right because you were smart enough to figure it out.
You're right because my father revealed that answer to you.
You see, there's always a question that we have to answer as a church, and that is, which Jesus are we gonna proclaim?
And I'm just gonna tell you, and if you're our guest here today, I'm glad you're here, because I can tell you this about our church.
We have decided that the Jesus we're gonna proclaim is the one that's revealed in this book.
This is the only faithful source we have to tell us who God is, who we are, and how we can have a relationship with Him.
This is our agenda.
We are a Bible focused Bible believing church.
We are a Christ centered church and we want to be moved and motivated by the gospel.
I see if you're not that you can get into a real problem.
There are people who study churches and I want to just show you a graph that might help you to understand how churches normally have a life cycle.
Churches come and churches go.
And it always begins with a man.
That's Jesus, right?
And then there's this movement that gathers around and we're gonna have a local church.
And then that church starts living to proclaim the gospel and having ministries of compassion in their community and reaching people and sharing God's love with people.
And that's when the church is on mission.
And the church on mission is at the crest of the wave.
Think of it this way.
The church on mission is surfing.
A surfboard has no power.
The power is in the wave.
And you're riding the wave of the Holy Spirit.
You're riding the wave when you're on mission.
But if you're not on mission, then something begins to happen.
You then begin to fall in what is called a maintenance mentality.
Now by maintenance, please hear me.
I'm not talking about maintaining the facilities.
We spend, absolutely, we spend money on our facilities.
But a maintenance mentality is we just got to hold on to what we got.
We just got to hold on to what we've got.
Can't offend anybody because somebody might leave if we say the wrong thing.
We've got to compromise and we can't take a bold stand on anything.
So that's a maintenance mentality.
The maintenance mentality will always lead a little farther down that curve.
And a little farther down that curve, you have the monument.
And that's when we're going to protect the structures.
We're going to put plaques on things and you can't move stuff.
And I've been in churches where you couldn't move any furniture around cause a sister so and so gave that.
And then a church becomes a museum.
I've been into some of the great cathedrals of Europe and they are museums.
Oh, they still have a worship service there, but people go in, they take a nice little tour of Westminster Abbey or
or some of the other churches, St. Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin, Ireland, they're museums.
Now no church sets out to be a museum, so how do you stay up on that wave?
How do you ride the momentum of the Holy Spirit?
How do you make sure that you're walking in step with the Spirit?
Let me tell you one of the ways that you do that, and it's one of the ways our church does it.
You focus on reaching the next generation for Christ.
The focus of our church, one of the things that we focus on is reaching the next generation.
Our kids ministry saw a transition this year, and transitions are never easy, but we went from a faithful servant who served here for 40 years in Sherry Carter, and she did a wonderful job laying a foundation to a new kids pastor, Gary Olmsted, stepped into that role, and he has done a wonderful job.
And he has built upon the foundation that Sherry laid and we have seen an increase in attendance and an emphasis on Bible memory.
We're seeing kids excited about what's happening.
And I know from some of you, you've reported back to me about some of those changes that have been made that Gary is doing a fantastic job.
We are very excited about our kids ministry.
Not only that, but our student ministry.
There's something you don't see that I want you to understand.
Every Wednesday night, there are about 600 students across the street at 180 in our junior high and high school ministry, 600 students.
Now, a lot of those students come on Sunday mornings and they give me a woo when I announce the scripture passage.
Some of them don't, but it is a way that we're reaching out into that generation.
And I would say this to you.
that if you really are looking for a place to serve, our student ministry would be a great place for you to do that because they need some serious help.
We need help with life groups.
They have a life group hour on Sunday morning.
Talk to Stephen, I'm sure he has a place for you.
But incredible things are happening in our student ministry.
In this past year, 131 students made a first-time decision to trust Jesus as Savior and Lord.
That's worth applauding.
And of course we've got 180 weekend coming up and I want you to pray about that.
I want you to participate in that.
They need you to serve in that as well or be a host home.
I'm going to tell you great things happen at 180 weekend.
But in the next kind of step up the ladder, our college ministry, we have seen God do incredible things in the last year.
This past semester, this past fall, we had the highest average attendance on Tuesday nights we have ever had at the bridge.
We have had 49 students.
We have had 49 college students be baptized in the last year.
We averaged 155 on Tuesday nights, and we are excited about what God is doing.
And I'm going to tell you this.
Our college ministry, what you're participating in every time you give, we are making a difference on the MSU campus and on the Vernon College campus.
Those campuses are different because of the presence of the bridge, because of the presence of our college ministry.
And another highlight that I really want to point out is in our young adult ministry.
Even though they're kind of out of that next gen category, we're seeing the next generation of leaders for our church step forward.
And our young adult pastor, Justin Bindle, brought the four king and kingdom summit retreats
to our men and he's calling them out of just living the mundane and the day-to-day but to get up every morning to live for their king and for his kingdom to advance the gospel in the kingdom of God.
As a matter of fact some of these men who were ordained as deacons have been through that ministry and we're seeing men step up and lead in their families and now step up and lead in our church and this is a good thing this is a positive thing.
Now I give you numbers
And sometimes people think, well, you're just bragging about the numbers.
Let me tell you why I give you the numbers.
Because behind every number, there is a name.
Behind every one of those kids that prayed to receive Christ, there is a name, there is a face, there is a soul that has been saved.
Behind every one of those 49 baptisms at the bridge, there is a young person who has been rescued from sin and self-destruction.
And we are so thankful for what God
has done in our church, but I'm going to tell you God is doing much more in this next year.
We have already begun to see the signs of God continuing to move.
There was an Italian philosopher who came up with a principle.
It's called the Pareto principle because that was his last name, Pareto.
And he theorized that 20% of the resources or 20% of the people in any organization produce 80% of the results.
And many times people say that about churches, but I need you to understand something.
That is not true at First Baptist Church.
It is not 20% of the people doing 80% of the work.
We function every week on an army of volunteers from the people that are out there in the parking lots, helping you, people at the doors, people who work behind the scenes in our tech crew, music, teaching life groups on every stage and stage of life.
There is an army of volunteers
who serve in this church.
And it's much more than 20%.
It's more like 50.
But not only that, God has blessed our church and you've been faithfully giving.
And one of the things I want you to understand is, it's not true that 20% of the people give 80% of the money to this church.
That's not true either.
There is a trend in our church that you are giving, that family units are giving, and we have seen a tremendous number of people participate in giving to our church.
Now, I don't look at what you give.
I don't know what you give, but I asked the business office, are we seeing an increased number of givers?
And in the past year, more of you have said, I want to invest in the kingdom of God.
I want to invest in my church.
I want to give to make sure that those great things are happening.
And so what I want to say to you is thank you for listening to the prompting of the spirit of God.
So there is a question that we have to clearly answer.
And that is the Jesus we're going to present.
But there is also an obstacle that we must constantly attack.
The church must be on the offensive.
The church of the Lord Jesus needs a spirit of conquest that we are advancing for something important and eternal.
Jesus looks at Peter and he says, Peter, you weren't really smart enough to figure that out.
My father who is in heaven revealed that to you.
And then in verse 18 he says, and I also say to you, you are Peter.
And upon this rock, I will build my church and the gates of Hades will not overpower it.
Now let me talk about the foundation of the church from this passage for just a moment.
And I want to clear up a point of confusion.
Jesus is using a play on words.
If you could read this in the Greek New Testament, the language in which it is written, you would see the play on words.
He says, you are Peter.
That is the word Petros.
Word Petros meant little stone, pebble, tiny little rock.
He says, you are a tiny stone, Peter.
But upon this rock, the word there is Petra.
Petra is massive foundation stone.
Upon this foundation stone, I will build my church.
Jesus didn't say, Peter, I'm gonna build my church on you.
Jesus doesn't build his church on Peter, on a pastor, on a pope.
That's not who Jesus builds his church on.
Jesus builds his church on a profession.
And the profession is that he is Christ the Lord
and King.
He is the son of the living God.
He says, that's how I will build my church.
By the way, that is the first time in all of the Bible that the word church is used.
It's the first place.
Jesus used it first.
It's the word ecclesia.
And it means an assembly of those who've been called.
We are the assembly of those who've been called to hear the truth
and then to go out and to proclaim that truth.
But Jesus says I will build my church.
When Jesus says I'm gonna build my church, I don't want you to think facilities.
I want you to think faces.
Because his church is not a geographic location.
It's not bricks, brick and mortar.
His church is his people.
It's not a building, it's a body.
It's a group of people.
And he says of us that we will be his church.
We will be his hands and feet.
We will be his voice to bring clarity to a morally and spiritually confused culture.
Now, how do we do that?
Well, we do that many times through ministries of compassion.
We've seen that in our church in the past year.
when those horrible floods hit the Texas Hill Country.
By your giving, and we had some people who went with Texans on mission, we went and served those people.
Those are ministries of compassion.
Not only that, but we sent a team to North Carolina, the horrible floods that resulted from a hurricane that swept up North Carolina.
We sent a group of guys up there who
got down on their knees, hands and knees and got their hands dirty and helped clean out some of those places and just worked for an entire week.
Those are ministries of compassion.
Those are the ways in which we tell people in a very tangible way that they are loved by Jesus.
We also assist churches.
A few years ago, I don't remember how long, it was 15 years ago, we sent Justin and Amber up to Salt Lake City and they formed Ecclesia.
church, church church, Ecclesia church was church church.
But now it's called church of the valley and we sent a group up there of our students and they went and supported their vacation Bible school.
That's another way that we advanced the kingdom of God and helped build the church and that is by supporting other churches.
But you also engaged in ministries of compassion in our own city.
You know that little project that we do every November
cans by the car, and it doesn't cost you much.
You bring a couple of cans of food or a bag of rice or something like that and put it beside your car.
It doesn't feel like much.
Did you know, and you probably didn't because we haven't told you, that our entire church gave over 6,000 pounds of food, three tons of food to the agencies in our community that give to those who have less resources.
My couple of pounds of food didn't feel like much, but when we move together, and when we come together and do those things, we make a major impact.
There are other ways in which we're loving our community through the Good News Club at Scotland Park Elementary School.
Our college ministries has a serve my city emphasis every year, and of course our adults have served Saturday.
There are great things happening in our city and we are moving to show people that Jesus loves them and we do too.
But we also go outside this.
Jesus said, I want you to minister in your Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, utter most parts of the earth.
And so we go to the Oklahoma Baptist Children's Home, Baptist Home for Girls rather and minister there.
We had a group that did that.
We also go to Mission Arlington and minister there.
And we had a group that went to the Mataw Children's Village
in Africa and every person who went on that trip was so incredibly impacted.
Now you helped to underwrite some of that trip and some of you went on that trip to love these folks and it is such an incredible way in which not only are those people ministered to, but God does such a special work in the people who go.
There's something that happens deep inside of you.
And in the past year we've gone to Canada, Costa Rica,
And we're looking forward to what God is going to do.
We believe that God is going to help us to put boots on the ground on all six inhabited continents.
We're looking at Japan, the Dominican Republic in the next year.
We had a musical group that went to Eastern Europe and we're looking at Ukraine.
We believe God is going to use us in incredible ways.
Let me summarize this in a couple of other things though.
There are two big opportunities that I want you to be praying about.
About three years ago, I cast a vision, Vision 2028.
And we talked about the relocation of our West campus.
And I really wanted that to happen.
Really believed that was going to happen.
But I have to be honest with you and tell you that we've really been investigating that.
We've studied that.
We've prayed over that.
And to be honest with you, the cost of building today is so high and incredible that when we looked at the final price tag of about $16 to $20 million, that was going to put our church in a financial high wire act that I'm not sure I was ready to balance.
So we backed away from that.
We prayed about it.
And here's what we've discovered, that we didn't think we could expand our facilities on the present West campus with the help of an architect.
We have learned that we can expand the worship center and add a great building for our student ministry at the West Campus.
And what we're going to do is roll out some plans for a renovated and remodeled West Campus that is expanded to meet the needs of a growing population segment in our community.
We believe in the ministry of the West Campus.
We believe it's vital and it's important.
And we believe that these renovations and expansion can really help us
especially administering to families in another area second area that I want to talk to you about for a few minutes and that is that back about three years ago I was praying and I was seeking God and I said God I need I need you to either move in me or move me because I don't want to just spin the wheels I love you
But I don't want to just spin the wheels.
I want our church to do something.
And one day I was in a part of our city that I don't normally go riding through.
For some reason I was going down the street and there were these families and every single one of them was of Hispanic ethnicity.
It's obvious.
And I began to ask myself, who's reaching these folks?
I don't speak Spanish.
I mean, I can ask Donde esta baño, but if you do anything other than point, I still don't know where it is.
By the way, Donde esta baño is where is the bathroom?
Where is the restroom?
And I began to say, who's ministering to these folks?
And I began to research that.
And the ministry to Spanish-speaking people in our city is anemic.
Now, that may be hurtful to somebody, but it's anemic.
We're not reaching these folks with the gospel.
And they are people for whom Christ died.
They are people created in the image of God.
They are people that God loves.
And I'm like, God, you called me here, so what do I do about that?
And we did some research and we discovered that there's churches having great success in not
We don't want to plant a Spanish language church that's off in some storefront somewhere, never to be seen again.
But they're incorporating a Spanish language service into the life of the church.
And we have the facilities to do this.
We have the means to do this.
Now, I need you to understand that we've taken this deliberately, what seems slowly, and it seems slow to me.
We've been on a steep learning curve to understand how this works.
I mean, when you bring two language, you know, just starting another worship service, not that hard, but you bring two language groups together and there could be some confusion and some tension and there probably will be.
But we're going to learn to love one another.
That's what we're going to do.
So I'm happy to announce to you that we are making a lot of progress.
As a matter of fact, this week, we had our first interview with a potential candidate to be our Spanish language pastor.
April 1st, we start a new budget year.
There will be a salary line item in that budget is my prayer that our committees will work through that.
There will be a salary line item for our Spanish language pastor.
There will be resources in that budget to resource that ministry.
By the summer, we want to bring this person on so that they can begin building relationships going into that community, letting people know who they are.
And our hope is in the fall, we launch a Spanish language worship service right here in our facility on Sunday mornings.
That's what we desire to do.
We believe that God has called us and positioned us as a church to reach our city.
And if 30% of our city speaks Spanish,
Then we need to speak Spanish too.
That's what we need to do.
And I believe that God is gonna raise up the right leader.
We've learned that everything rises and falls on leadership in these projects.
And we believe that God's gonna raise up that leader.
Here's what I need you to do.
I need you to pray that we discern the right leader to step into that role on our ministry pastoral team.
And Jesus said this, when the church is on mission,
The gates of Hades will not overpower it.
The gates of death itself.
Now understand this, gates don't attack anybody.
We attack the gates.
We storm the gates.
This past week, there have been some reports that we should pray about as Christians, but they are evidence that when the church is on mission, even though it's persecuted, it's unstoppable.
In Venezuela, this week, according to the International Mission Board, over 100 evangelical pastors were among the political prisoners that were released from Venezuelan jails.
May they go to their pulpits this morning and proclaim the unsearchable riches of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
We are thankful for that.
And I ask you to pray for them because they're not totally free yet.
And we should pray for our Venezuelan friends and our brothers and sisters there, especially, that the church would be a mighty influence.
But there is another place on the globe right now.
According to Paul Chitwood, who is the president of the International Mission Board, the fastest growing Christian movement in the world is the underground church in Iran.
This morning, Iran
is in chaos.
There are protests in the streets, and I'm just gonna tell you this, I pray for the overthrow of the Islamic totalitarian regime in Iran.
And the church, and that the church could stand up and be free to proclaim the gospel in that nation.
That nation, if you go back in history,
It was called Persia.
I have a friend who is from there, and they now refuse to call themselves Iranian.
They say, I'm Persian because that's their heritage.
But it has a great and rich history.
But the evil, the evil that is Islam has choked the Iranian Persian people.
And we should pray that they are free to hear the gospel.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to fbcwf.org.
We'll see you next week.